---
layout: cv
title: cv
last_updated: 2024-06-08
category: cv
site: kjhealy 
---

# Dan Pilch

<div id="webaddress">
*Location:* UK (British Citizen)
| *Github:* <a href="https://github.com/danpilch">danpilch</a>
</div>

## Summary

I am a seasoned professional engineer with over a decade of experience in architecting and managing distributed, scalable software systems. My passion for building has led me to excel in a diverse range of roles, including platform engineering, infrastructure design, software development, systems administration, SRE and team leadership. As a founding member of a successful startup, I bring a dynamic, startup-minded approach to all my endeavors. My extensive background includes work in the Finance, Anti-Piracy and Marketing sectors, spanning both startup and enterprise environments. I am dedicated to fostering remote-first engineering cultures and have a track record of proficiency working remotely.

### Skills

This following list represents the technologies I have real, hands-on experience with day-to-day in my current role over the past 3 years. For an extended list of technologies I have experience with please look at the dedicated skills page [here]({% post_url 2023-11-04-full-skill-list %}).

- AWS (vpc, eks, ec2, iam, sqs, sns, route53, amazonmq, rds etc.)
- Linux: ubuntu, amazonlinux, alpine, debian
- External vendors: appsignal, newrelic, sumologic, planetscale, aiven, okta, cloudflare, pagerduty, twilio
- Coding: golang, elixir, python, ruby
- Platform tooling: terraform, ansible, packer, vagrant
- Database/data warehouse/data engineering: postgres, mariadb, athena, dynamodb
- Everything else: grafana, prometheus, rabbitmq, kubernetes, docker, concourse, envoy, kong, haproxy, temporal, concourse, benthos, nginx

### Certifications
- Kubernetes Administrator (CKA) - Certified on 5/5/2020 (CKA-2000-007699-0100)

## Experience

### Community.com - Staff Systems Engineer

`September 2020 - Present`

At Community.com I have played a pivotal role in shaping infrastructure and platform strategies, embracing multiple roles, from backend engineering to security and architecture, I have led transformative projects, such as migrating the our core infrastructure platform from Mesos to Kubernetes and implementing self-service infrastructure provisioning through Terraform and Atlantis. I also developed innovative solutions, like an AI-powered on-call helper for incident debugging. This is a role where I have to adapt and wear many hats, this type of environment is where I thrive.

I currenty lead the platform and infrastructure team and backend guild.

Some notable projects:

- **Platform Migration:** Led a successful migration initiative, transitioning our entire core service platform (over 150 services) from Mesos to Kubernetes (EKS). This strategic move optimized our infrastructure for enhanced scalability and efficiency. Mesos as a project is on life support, migrating to Kubernetes provides the business with a platform that is future proof. One of the key requirements for the migration was to support both Mesos and Kubernetes in parrallel. This was achievable with Community's custom service discovery tooling sidecar and Envoy.

- **AI-Powered On-Call Support:** Pioneered an AI-based on-call assistant, designed as an interface to OpenAI, coded in Golang. This invaluable tool aids on-call engineers in triage, support and resolution of incidents, swiftly and effectively. The tool integrates as a bot within Slack which gives the AI system incident context and allows all engineers to collaborate with the tool in Slack threads. The tool also has access to the Community engineering runbook repository to provide the AI with additional context of our system and how-to manage systems.

- **Empowering Self-Service:** Implementation of a self-service infrastructure provisioning system through GitHub pull requests, powered by Terraform and Atlantis. This innovation streamlined creating infrastructure and review through the well practiced git pull request review process.

- **Seamless RabbitMQ Migration:** Designed and implemented a zero-downtime migration of our event-bus system that runs on RabbitMQ from AmazonMQ to Kubernetes. This migration not only significantly reduced costs but also enhanced system reliability.

- **Golang Tooling Expertise:** Developed a suite of Golang-based tools, including environment comparators, CI pipeline comparators, and GitHub pull-request monitoring solutions. These tools maintain system parity between development and production environments, fostering less man hours spent managing system parity.

### Nomura Investment Bank - VP Cloud Infrastructure

`May 2020 - August 2020`
- Short engagement with Nomura, planning and provisioning core banking network infrastructure routing via BGP to AWS VPC.
- Provisioning AWS accounts (iam, networking etc.) for many business units.

### Westpac New Zealand - DevOps/Data Engineering

`December 2018 – November 2019`
- Led the development of Westpac's data platform using Kafka, Spark, Hadoop, Hive, and Airflow on Kubernetes, VMware, and bare metal servers.
- Integrated mainframe IBM MQ queues with Kafka for real-time streaming of banking transaction data.
- Maintained Airflow and Spark/Hadoop environments for business-critical workloads.

### Bitcoin Australia - DevOps Engineer Consultant

`November 2017 – October 2018`
- Consulted for Bitcoin Australia to implement CI/CD of legacy systems running on EC2 and rebuild their entire stack in AWS with IaC terraform, ansible etc.
- Successfully migrated repositories and CI pipelines from Bitbucket to GitLab.

### Sharpe Capital - Cloud & Security Architect

`October 2017 – May 2018`
- Provided consulting for Sharpe Capital as Cloud Architect during their Initial Coin Offering.
- Cloud stratehy and AWS environment design and implementation from IAM and VPC to database and systems design.

### PPL UK - DevOps Engineer Consultant

`July 2016 – October 2017`
- Provided consultation to PPL during their digital transformation project "remix" to establish a DevOps culture.
- Managed projects involving Apache Hadoop, AWS CloudFormation, and Docker for efficient data processing.

### Incopro - Lead DevOps Engineer

`May 2013 – July 2016`
- The first full time engineering employee at Incopro. Led platform engineering, DevOps adoption and wore many hats. 
- Utilized the configuration management tool Ansible to automate provisioning and deployments on 500+ of Incopro’s servers on-prem, datacentre and AWS.
- Designed and maintained huge pool of web scraping bots using selenium and other web scraping technologies.

### Warner Bros - Anti-Piracy

`September 2011 – September 2012`
- Improved software and infrastructure for content protection using web scraping.

## Education

- **University of Portsmouth** - BEng (Hons) Degree in Computer Network Management & Design (1st Class)

## Personal

- Outside of work, I enjoy exercise, playing guitar, travel and spending time with my wife Laura and Golden Retriever Lily.
